---
source: https://www.hannonhill.com/cascadecms/latest/cascade-administration/installation-and-upgrades/test-server.html
title: Setting up a test environment - Cascade CMS Knowledge Base
category: general
scraped: 2026-02-16
version: cascade-cms-latest
---

main{ display: flex; flex-direction: column; gap: 1em; }

Installation & Upgrades

# Prepare the test server[](#Preparethetestserver)

1.  Install the latest version of Cascade CMS.
2.  Stop Cascade CMS (if it's running).
3.  Create a backup of your production database and import it as a new database.
    -   Note: Organizations using MySQL should verify that the collation of the new database is configured properly according to [these instructions](https://www.hannonhill.com/cascadecms/latest/cascade-administration/installation-and-upgrades/database/mysql.html).
4.  Configure the test environment to point to the test database.

# Disable publishing to Destinations[](#DisablepublishingtoDestinations)

Run the following query on your test database to prevent assets from the test environment from being published to your production web server(s):

`UPDATE cxml_destination SET isEnabled=0;`

If you're testing the application using your production database and testing publishing, we recommend setting up a test Destination that points to a test/staging server.

# Disable SMTP server emails[](#DisableSMTPserveremails)

Run the following query on your test database to prevent emails that use the SMTP configuration (such as LDAP sync emails) from being generated by the test server:

`DELETE FROM cxml_preferences WHERE fieldName LIKE '%smtp%';`

# Disable connectors[](#Disableconnectors)

Run the following query on your test database to disable connections to connectors such as Google Analytics:

`UPDATE cxml_connector SET isVerified =0;`

You can selectively re-enable connectors under **Manage Site > Connectors** in each site.

# Disable the Siteimprove integration[](#DisabletheSiteimproveintegration)

Run the following query on your test database to prevent the Siteimprove integration from running checks on pages in the test environment:

`UPDATE cxml_preferences SET fieldValue = 'off' WHERE fieldName = 'system_pref_siteimprove_enabled';`  
`UPDATE cxml_preferences SET fieldValue = null WHERE fieldName = 'system_pref_siteimprove_token';`

# Wrapping up[](#Wrappingup)

1.  Start Cascade CMS.
2.  Enter a valid license for your test server.
    -   Note: Because the database was copied from production, the license for the production machine is stored in this database.
    -   If this is your first time setting up a test environment and you need a license, contact Hannon Hill Product Support and be sure to provide us with the internal hostname of the test server (which can be retrieved by entering the command `hostname` at the command prompt/terminal).
3.  Navigate to **Administration > Preferences > System > General**
    -   Change the **System URL** to reflect the URL of your test environment.
    -   Change the **System Name** to indicate that the instance is a Test or Development instance.
    -   (Optional) Select a **System Label Color** for to visually distinguish your test environment from your production environment.

[↑](#top)

function toggleWidthAndIcon() { var element = document.getElementById("expand"); var icon = document.getElementById("iconToggle"); // Check if the content is currently full width if (element.classList.contains("width-full")) { // If yes, switch to "width" and update the icon to "expand" element.classList.remove("width-full"); element.classList.add("width"); icon.classList.remove('fa-down-left-and-up-right-to-center'); icon.classList.add('fa-up-right-and-down-left-from-center'); } else { // If not, switch to "width-full" and update the icon to "un-expand" element.classList.remove("width"); element.classList.add("width-full"); icon.classList.remove('fa-up-right-and-down-left-from-center'); icon.classList.add('fa-down-left-and-up-right-to-center'); } }